# Structure-of-Programming-Languages-Project
For this project I will be comparing two programs to find the n-th Fibonacci number.  The programming languages I decided to compare are C++ and Python. <br />

I coded each program in Visual Studio Code.  To run these programs locally you can either open them in Visual Stuido or copy and paste the programs into any online C++ and Python compilers. <br />

1. The first concept I will compare is garbage collection.  In Python memory allocation and deallocation is automatic.  This means that the user is not responsible for having to manually allocate or deallocate memory.  Once the reference count of an object becomes zero, it will then be dereferenced.  After this the garbage collector will automatically dereference the object.  This differs from C++ as it requires manual memory management.  In C++, the new and delete operators are used to handle memory.  The new operator is used to request memory space from heap and the delete operator is used to deallocate the requested memory. <br />

2. The second concept I will compare is parameter passing.  In C++ the two parameter passing techniques used are pass by reference and pass by value.  This differs slightly from Python as it only uses pass by reference.  In the C++ fibonacci program, the pass by value parameter passing technique is used.  <br />
When looking specifically at how pass by reference works in each language they also differ in how to implement the technique.  In Python anytime a variable is passed into a function it will always use pass by reference.  In C++  the ‘&’ character needs to be put in front of the formal parameter of the function. <br />

3. The third concept I will compare is implementation models used.  C++ is a compiled language while Python is an interpreted language.  Compiled languages are converted directly into machine code for the processor to execute.  Interpreted languages run through programs line by line and execute each command.  It is for this reason that compiled languages run faster than interpreted languages.  C++ also requires the use of libraries and files to run programs.  In the Fibonacci program for example the <iostream> library was the only one I needed to include.  In Python, libraries and files are not needed to run programs.
